Add clang-tidy to CI (#16958)
rapidsai/cudf: cpp/CMakeLists.txt

  set(CUDF_GENERATED_INCLUDE_DIR ${CUDF_BINARY_DIR})
endif()

# ##################################################################################################
# * clang-tidy configuration ----------------------------------------------------------------------
if(CUDF_CLANG_TIDY)
  find_program(
    CLANG_TIDY_EXE
    NAMES "clang-tidy"
    DOC "Path to clang-tidy executable" REQUIRED
  )

  execute_process(
    COMMAND ${CLANG_TIDY_EXE} --version
    OUTPUT_VARIABLE CLANG_TIDY_OUTPUT
    OUTPUT_STRIP_TRAILING_WHITESPACE
  )

>   string(REGEX MATCH "[0-9]+\\.[0-9]+\\.[0-9]+" LLVM_VERSION "${CLANG_TIDY_OUTPUT}")
>   # Discard the patch version and allow it to float. Empirically, results between patch versions are
>   # mostly stable, and looking at available packages on some package managers sometimes patch
>   # versions are skipped so we don't want to constrain to a patch version that the user can't
>   # install.
>   string(REPLACE "." ";" LLVM_VERSION_LIST ${LLVM_VERSION})
>   list(SUBLIST LLVM_VERSION_LIST 0 2 LLVM_VERSION_LIST)
>   list(JOIN LLVM_VERSION_LIST "." LLVM_VERSION)

Reviewer: Instead of creating a list, use the `CMAKE_MATCH_<n>` variable:

```suggestion
  string(REGEX MATCH "LLVM version ([0-9]+\\.[0-9]+)\\.[0-9]+" LLVM_VERSION_MATCH "${CLANG_TIDY_OUTPUT}")
  # Discard the patch version and allow it to float. Empirically, results between patch versions are
  # mostly stable, and looking at available packages on some package managers sometimes patch
  # versions are skipped so we don't want to constrain to a patch version that the user can't
  # install.
  set(LLVM_VERSION "${CMAKE_MATCH_1}")
```

Author: TIL! Thanks.

  set(expected_clang_tidy_version 19.1)
  if(NOT expected_clang_tidy_version VERSION_EQUAL LLVM_VERSION)
    message(
      FATAL_ERROR
        "clang-tidy version ${expected_clang_tidy_version} is required, but found ${LLVM_VERSION}"
    )
  endif()
endif()

# Turn on the clang-tidy property for a target excluding the files specified in SKIPPED_FILES.
function(enable_clang_tidy target)
  set(_tidy_options)
  set(_tidy_one_value)
  set(_tidy_multi_value SKIPPED_FILES)
  cmake_parse_arguments(
    _TIDY "${_tidy_options}" "${_tidy_one_value}" "${_tidy_multi_value}" ${ARGN}
  )

  if(CUDF_CLANG_TIDY)
    # clang will complain about unused link libraries on the compile line unless we specify
    # -Qunused-arguments.
    set_target_properties(
      ${target} PROPERTIES CXX_CLANG_TIDY "${CLANG_TIDY_EXE};--extra-arg=-Qunused-arguments"
    )
    foreach(file IN LISTS _TIDY_SKIPPED_FILES)
      set_source_files_properties(${file} PROPERTIES SKIP_LINTING ON)
    endforeach()
  endif()

> endfunction()

Reviewer: Instead of enabling clang-tidy for each target, you can enable it for all targets with `CMAKE_C_CLANG_TIDY` and `CMAKE_CXX_CLANG_TIDY`. This will initialize the `C_CLANG_TIDY` and `CXX_CLANG_TIDY` properties for each target. You can then override them on a per-target basis.

Author: I originally did that, but we currently have more targets that we don't run it on than targets that we do. We might be able to change that over time, but for now this approach is more systematic. Also it makes the files to be skipped more explicit, since we are realistically going to have to keep doing that in perpetuity.
